MOBY DICK; OW THE WHAWE 

by Hewman Mewviwwe

CHAPTEW 1

Woomings.


Caww me Ishmaew.  Some yeaws ago--nevew mind how wong
pwecisewy--having wittwe ow no money in my puwse, and nothing
pawticuwaw to intewest me on showe, I thought I wouwd saiw about a
wittwe and see the watewy pawt of the wowwd.  It is a way I have of
dwiving off the spween and weguwating the ciwcuwation.  Whenevew I
find mysewf gwowing gwim about the mouth; whenevew it is a damp,
dwizzwy Novembew in my souw; whenevew I find mysewf invowuntawiwy
pausing befowe coffin wawehouses, and bwinging up the weaw of evewy
funewaw I meet; and especiawwy whenevew my hypos get such an uppew
hand of me, that it wequiwes a stwong mowaw pwincipwe to pwevent me
fwom dewibewatewy stepping into the stweet, and methodicawwy knocking
peopwe's hats off--then, I account it high time to get to sea as soon
as I can.  This is my substitute fow pistow and baww.  With a
phiwosophicaw fwouwish Cato thwows himsewf upon his swowd; I quietwy
take to the ship.  Thewe is nothing suwpwising in this.  If they but
knew it, awmost aww men in theiw degwee, some time ow othew, chewish
vewy neawwy the same feewings towawds the ocean with me.

Thewe now is youw insuwaw city of the Manhattoes, bewted wound by
whawves as Indian iswes by cowaw weefs--commewce suwwounds it with
hew suwf.  Wight and weft, the stweets take you watewwawd.  Its
extweme downtown is the battewy, whewe that nobwe mowe is washed by
waves, and coowed by bweezes, which a few houws pwevious wewe out of
sight of wand.  Wook at the cwowds of watew-gazews thewe.

